Eli Sobylak
Final Seminar Paper
Chapter 4
5-Jun-2015

What is the relationship between: 

I. Magic and automata?
	a. Woods talks about the French philosopher Etienne-Jules Marey and describes them as believing that the human body was in fact some sort of organic and living machine. HIs line of thinking seemed to be a bridge between philosophers, scientists, magicians of that time and mechanistic thinkers(pg. 173).
	b. To the people of the early 19th and 20th century, the automata such as the mechanical Turk and edition’s dolls must have seemed like magic. This may have been because these inventions were pushing and playing with the lines f what is human and alive and what is not. Or maybe it seemed like magic just because it lacked an explanation, for now, in the 21st century, we know the Turk not to be ‘magic’, yet it was a playful a mystical stepping stone to get to where we are today with asking questions like this.

II. Magic and movies/cinema?
	a. The relationship of magic and movies/cinema is very closely related as most of the first movies ever made understandably were considered magic. Woods spends a lot of time talking about Georges Méliés and how his work in film was a true act of magic during that time because he would edit the film strips in such a way that what happened in the film would otherwise be impossible in real life (pg. 191).
	b. Similar to the vein of magic and automata, magic and movies go hand in hand. And this is a topic I think is still prevalent to this very day. Since the movies became popular in everyday American culture, they have seemed like magic, things that would never be possible in real life, become very real right in front of your eyes on the big screen. As the technology of cinematography gets better and better we will see the boundary between real life and what is possible in movies shrink.
 
III. Magic and science?
	a. On page 200, Woods talks about some of the first uses of electricity to ‘re-animate’ dead tissue on people. Much like Frankenstein people where getting a mix of science and magic here.
	b. It can be said that magic is just science we cannot yet explain. While this may be true in some situations, I think it is important to realize it can’t always be true. 

IV. Magic and virtual reality/ reality?
	a. The whole talk about movies in this chapter really is a form of virtual reality. For the people of the time, what was happening in the movies that where coming out was a sort of virtual reality. And that’s why today, if you want to get the most immersive movie experience you go to imax movies where the screen is 90 feet tall and the sound is incredible. Totally a different experience. 
	b. I believe we will get to the point where virtual reality does not seem like magic, in fact, it may very well be a normal thing in the future. This questions is an interesting one though, since in the mean time, while virtual reality is still being worked on, the whole concept does seem like some sort of magic.