8-Jun-2015
Self-Evaluation- Eli Sobylak
Computer Applications for the Fiber Arts

There was a lot of learning that occurred this quarter for me. It was ten weeks of introduction for Fiber Arts for me as I had no prior experience doing anything like weaving or felting. I felt that this program allowed me to work on and maintain my computer science skills while simultaneously taking up a completely new skill. That skill was weaving. Something I thought I would never have a grasp on and say to someone is, ‘I know what weaving is, and how it works.’ But now, after this quarter, I feel like I have a basic understanding of the weaving process. 
This program was interesting though, because of the mix of computer science in that I was thinking about some of the problems and topics in weaving and looking at it from a computer perspective. For example, myself and classmates made a program which could generate pictures from open source WIF files which are commonly used in weave drafting. We wrote the entire script in python and made it so every time it ran it would produce a new weave pattern based on a pre-determined set of random values. We had one of Gail’s old students come in, Liz, and talk about some of her work. And during this, she talked about how her interests in weaving include thinking about weaving in a probabilistic way. Which I thought was an interesting concept, such as weaving things as tree bark and mountain ranges. 
Another exciting aspect of my learning this past ten weeks was the two projects I got to complete for this class. One was the individual project where I constructed a working mobile depicting our Solar System as it appeared 250 million years ago. I made each of the planets in felt and did some of them in needle felt and some in wet felt style. It was a lot of fun and was challenging to design the mobile set up itself. I had multiple designs that I had to consider before I decided upon the two tiered system I wound up using which had an inner and outer ring of planets. The other project I got to be part of was a group project where four of my classmates and myself wove a full chess board which was about 12 by 12 inches. And then we made felted pieces to play with. It was a lot of fun working with my group members to design our own weaving pattern that would give us a playable checker-board pattern. And then being able to make it in real life and play with it was a great experience. We also incorporated using an Arduino to make a chess timer for our chess board. The timer was made to keep track of time used during chess games, and counted in binary to let the players know how much time was left in their turn. 
Overall this class was a great learning experience that introduced me to a lot of new concepts mainly regarding weaving and things related to fiber arts. New ideas such as weave structures, setting up a loom for weaving, thinking abut weaving from a computer perspective all were covered for me this quarter. 